nice thank you thank you I want to show
you a couple things on Joe and some of
the things that I've been working on
like I mentioned before Michael my main
direction in jiu-jitsu has always been
to make jiu-jitsu better in MMA in the
UFC do UFC his work got me into
jiu-jitsu when I thought he loved seals
it that was the most amazing thing ever
and then you know immediately I started
doing jujitsu voices my favorite fighter
anybody who did anything what you did
said I was going to always been oh and
then one is funny because you in one way
some a lot of people that we're gonna
see you as a bad boy you do see how the
guys but I don't see I never saw that -
I always felt like you trying to create
your own routines and your own world
published trying to help you Jitsu
that's all it was is I I got tired of
seeing like a UFC 13 15 17 times in
jujitsu guys just you know I'm when
Jerry Bohlander font Fabio show I was
like oh no he was gonna meet up with
Elena fuck Matt Hughes man that hurt so
much because jiu-jitsu is my life and I
thought we gotta do something to fix
this especially at the bar let me let me
let me show you a little bit one right
you I saw him so I saw him so like just
hold on like this for a second and
that's what I thought oh that could be
something there because generally you
know people would be like you guys were
doing like this with Noah's head buttons
right and then the head butts came out
so this became a good way to survive
from the punishment so from there when I
saw him so do this at home I decided to
start running it all up and really can't
use my legs now because with the II it's
easy to control here's control the
posture but harder to control the
posture and your legs keep slipping down
you want to go high guard so my holes my
house system started becoming this kind
of stuff like there's no way you can
touch my
there's no way and I see Chrome I can't
Shinya Aoki and even my sullivan
sometimes he comes here to hold you know
the hold up man so the rubber guard i
don't know if you heard that but it's
all about just getting into this
position if his arms up here but if his
arms look here I'll attack this one I'll
even go like this and there's no way he
can hit me and there's no way he can
pull out and stand up again so that
became my obsession is to develop a
guard where they can't get up and run
away and being able to prevent him he
can't elbow me right here so as I cross
both these legs there's no way you can
hit me is it possible so um that's
that's what I develop this for jiu-jitsu
and like you said the jiu-jitsu
community a lot of them took that as oh
he thinks he knows more than us look at
him he's turning his back on Judaism the
reason I dropped the key is cuz I felt
that every second you grab the collar
grab sleeve that's not the same fighting
stance is MMA just like that you know
let's loser I can't lock the game to say
fuck you you Jitsu there was to hear
what for MMA the gears not good yeah we
have to the the fighting stance has to
be the same when we track when we train
grappling with no punches or with
punches it has to be the same stance the
same finest and so based on what again
when I saw you and him so doing it had
to come from that defensive posture and
then Oprah so you don't get hit then the
legs come up then you start attacking
while you control them while you keep
them from standing up and going to stand
up again because that was a fight with
Bobby on
and day from a new UFC the UFC
twenty-something we're v got a good arm
under guard
so if I stay for a night was a pretty
good wrestler
Fabiana yet could not take him down so
they get it into the caves and Fabiana
weekend which a full guard pull them
into the start and then put the feet on
the hips and to just set up for the
armbar cuz that's how he does it and
then date when I just stood up and just
walk the let's do it again so they
fought me honey hope gets up he did it
five times in that fight
he jumps guard and pulls him down but as
soon as he opened up his legs and put
his feet on the hips Dave my name
intersection do it again and then David
when I ended up winning so for me that's
for him that's a problem because they
don't have to be on top
if you pull guard because you can't take
the fire down he doesn't have to stay
there as soon as you open the guard
you're gonna get up just like Alistair
Orion
when he fought five thumpy Silverdome
but we still pulled him in his guard but
as soon as he opened it Alistair said
come on I'm not gonna go down there so
it became a movie okay that's a problem
we're gonna have to have them in the
guard
if we can't wrestle oh we have to pull
guard and then keep them from standing
up so the clinch became in my opinion
the most important thing is you got to
be in the collection and not only clinch
them so they don't stand up but clinch
up so they don't hit you and then you
have to pop offense from that clench so
anytime someone will train the key and
have to call it sleep that's not working
on the country of course so that's like
you're not working on so that's why
we're seeing all these black notes they
come in fire after fire all these guys
American talking black the black and
then when they're on their back they're
not used to offense from the defense the
best defensive position if they just
don't ever work there they think okay
I'm just gonna turn the key grab the
collar grab the sleeve and then it's
gonna somehow working stuff up somehow
it's gonna work itself out one it
doesn't work like that like if if you're
practicing your fighting stance like
but in a fight you have to go here it's
gonna be different quote you should have
been practicing like well that was my
philosophy and everything I've ever done
every every little tweak I've ever done
did you Jitsu some people that you
Jessica Nene got meaning else no one got
he thinks that I'm doing it this to
think that I'm the best guy and that I'm
better than always yeah look he dropped
the key he's betraying it's not about
that keeper cause I'm talking said ball
they prob what's he doing he taken off
the key you gave my black Donnie because
I said if I ever teach you Jitsu I'm
gonna teach without the key just to do
my part for MMA you can keep the game
you need the training that you need to
do the moon dance but so I need to focus
and dedicate myself to trying to try I'm
trying to improve jiu-jitsu in MMA
that's all I was ever truck for
jiu-jitsu not for Sambo not for
wrestling I'm for striking I'm Jiu Jitsu
pureblood pureblood and so that is the
misconception that there is it around
yeah and they're saying oh he's changing
man he's he's taking moves and changing
the names look that's a wrestling move
the twister he calls it the twister it's
actually the wrestlers guillotine oh my
I be changed the move he can a judge all
changed it because I would come in and
say this is a guillotine I learned in
wrestling and they were like there was a
regular guillotine next up front
headlock that's a deal so they started
calling it twisting I don't know that's
not the twister so then later people
started saying look he changes a
wrestling moving he's a fraud he's
taking moves and changing them and he's
making all these new purse or these
positions and changing and the only
names that I invent like the names that
I came up with were moves or transitions
that didn't have names so in my in my
brain I can teach better and I could
learn better with every transition every
position not even if it's a submission
every transition every setup has a name
so that happy with my students I can get
on the phone and we have a language
we're talking about although otherwise
if you're on the phone you're going you
know that one move where you put your
hand on the hip narrate what move to
show a show I don't know
so for me Americans like naming
everything so that's what that's where
the naming process came in I came up
with all these crazy names these stupid
names because I was not alone many sons
until we came back and then my goal is
to put my form over here now there's
more pressure now right here very hard
to do anything and I'm the next step is
to come here and the hug right here and
then if you're going to punch with this
here I'm gonna be right here already and
I'm already holding the foot and I can
control right here very hard to do
anything and then I'm right here yeah
this is where I'm at you need
flexibility and then if you try to stand
up with this leg I'm gonna bigger fort
here and then right here itself you'd be
very hard you've got
so that so that is a way to make it so
that you're defensive and they can't
punch you and I'm I'm actually going for
the kill
I'm not I'm not being defensive I'm
going for the job and in my experience
the bigger the got like 160 the bigger
the guy is of these 185 190 Emmys a
wrestler in my experience the only thing
that works is to get here in time and
hug sure that I'm right here this is a
hold on me very hard for for anybody to
do it you then once this what comes over
here and then here very hard really to
do in here that's the goal that's really
not that hard I played this game against
my top students on the day on a daily
basis so the best thing for you to do is
keep both your hands on the chest both
of them
and then yes that's that's because now
you have an opportunity or maybe posture
up you do it so what I want to do
immediately span now you can't punch me
and now you can't posture because you
only can do it with one heart there chef
yeah and then once I I'm at the other
leg here and clear here very hard you
can't punch and I can attack this arm
right here I'm looking at this I can
take this arm this way or I could just
right here you can't defend with your
right arm because I've already trapped
it and then we're here this is my one
online go to arm our setups we just end
up here then we end the fighting from
here like you survived everything and
then now we're here and I'm looking to
come back to hook here I'm looking to
come back to here and take this or you
roll and then it's a sweep because a lot
of times you got that will get anything
about that I'm just gonna roll and then
it's a sweep and I go up and I roll with
you and then I pass you guard at the
same time
with that roll
I'm trying to drive to the neck or that
our first connect the arm
we'll get that out of the way papa for a
moment next year I'm gonna go after that
harm or bring my foot over and hold on
here
I'm gonna so I'm gonna try to get this
hormone than that if I can't get off the
or than that then there's a different
things I can do here I can try to clear
the neck anyways
I didn't try to clue if I can't clear
the neck then we could just stay here
and then I could punch here until yeah
he didn't keep simple yeah no he could
stop people could last moose they always
they want to see especially now they
want to stay right here yes so here
unless this comfortable to eat your
spine yes yes listen this comes this is
a patient a patient game so that's why I
can still work from here and I can still
when I would do another maze punch here
until you block and then duel now we're
here right so but the most important
thing is to get that hat on the map
before the legs come up so anytime
you're here and I have the underhook
that means whether I'm here or here that
means all I gotta do this brings us up
here and now that arm is already out of
mix someone when I'm rolling I'm always
looking for that overlook moly as soon
as I get this Oprah hook here boom these
legs that come here they're gonna be
right here and then BAM right here and
then because this arm so it's all comes
from the over hook even from butterfly
card here if I'm here butterfly card all
I gotta do is release and now I'm here
and then and then there's a stacking you
have to be patient nothing's quick am I
fail you might pull out of it but then
we go back to the end I just you know
sometimes pull out there sweaty
just like you're trying to take him down
you didn't take them down you set it up
the camera try setting up dinner
like Rogell it takes me four times to
get him in a simple eye he's seen so
much war on he'll pull out and then we
not start again boom he's smashing and
then he pulls out then we start again
and then boom back on the fourth one
boom I can't put Sun you know the bat so
it's just like take down as you keep
trying to take a guy down and meanwhile
even though it's failing you can't get
hit because the way to defend it
it's the sac state type and not do
anything the way to stop it it's don't
punch because as soon as you punch
unless it mocks me how about one put
your hands already on the mat boom the
best analogy that you've ever made about
it is when you talk about head kicks
like if you try to teach someone how to
throw a head kick someone that I'm going
to pick something that well you get a
guy who's look like maurice smith and
great kickboxer it's easy for them to
kick some in there because they've done
it so many times it becomes a part of
their natural movement once you develop
the type of guard that he has I tell
everybody if you don't roll with him you
don't understand what's possible once
you roll with him his legs are like arms
and they're moving in positions that you
don't come to expect a normal training
and until you experience it you don't
know the possibilities I think that's
the next level of MMA I think what he's
doing right now is going to be you know
we're seeing all these new like wheel
kicks and new techniques and it's
striking that's the next thing is his
guard techniques I really believe it all
started from watching hands out do this
that's all go home that's because I was
a high guard player with the key nogi
the legs keep slipping the let's leave
stuff so it's hard to attack so then
we're like oh you just keep the leg up
here all pets food is the necessity to
keep the net closed yeah thinking in
that manner is a really needing is a
really effective but again if the guy
tried to be defensive
is hard for you I believe I believe you
had to combine some kind of strike some
kind of punishment you feel yes with our
elbows maybe to create that kind of
panic initially is the best objection
dead it's a day out without strike so
the powers here and then I love the
showed here I'm holdin out okay yeah
this position right here if you could
make up do it on kill but if you could
see this right here this all you're
gonna keep it you're not going to let me
have the armbar because as soon as you
strengthen it's gonna be tight so all
I'm gonna do is just throw elbows right
the perfect angle giving him I'm keeping
this tight see in this position right I
call this muddy Watership you can't do
anything and I have full weight on this
elbow and then boom take the arm this
arm is on the next this is tight so this
is the position I work to get into this
could take three minutes to get into but
once I'm here it's over now and slowly
bit by bit I have to move this elbow and
it's how do you move that elbow in it's
very hard I can't move it in here pop so
hard he has good posture it's so wide so
what I need to do is to get my fall on
this side across my ankles look at how I
squeeze the elbows
see how it's easier and then I go back
to this and then here this is my number
one rule that I do all the time and then
once I'm here I don't even need to bring
the leg over the face I could just
finish it right here if he has flexible
let arms then we take that if I want to
take a chance
you're so interested that's stuff that I
would love to show I would love to
because he's already trying to it
he's already flexible I think that would
be very valuable in all my guys do this
this is standard stuff that all I got
some guys that are doing upended any
time none declined the legs come up with
guys are already in trouble
Shinya Aoki he got he's the one who use
it the most you watch any oh Jesus a
very basic version of this I was in 2000
I was in Japan in 2005 and I showed a
lot of stuff he'd never seen it before
immediately starts using it in his
fights he starts trying on everybody so
just something that I would love to show
Chrome I would love to I think my people
this one case he's in a bad spot
reflexes Lester that's on top Mike it
might be an extra weapon that Nativity
they were always good
yes when we go to Bala thank you very
much hits your patience and thanks for
the boot
[Music]